Implementing base models/adapters for Nautobot side functionality. (#153)
nautobot/nautobot-plugin-ssot: docs/user/modelling.md

> # Modelling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Modeling
```

This page describes how to model various kinds of fields on a `nautobot_ssot.contrib.NautobotModel` subclass.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick Reference

| Type | action | notes |
| ----- | ------ | ----- |
| Normal fields | standard attribute | N/A |
| Custom Fields | f"{field_nam}_custom_field" | need to use custom class, etc. etc. |

```

Reviewer: ^^ not ready in it's current form, but you should be able to see where I am going with this.

Author: Great idea! Put something in there.

## Normal Fields

> For normal, non-relationship, non-custom fields on a model, all you need to do is to ensure that field name on your SSoT model class matches that of the Nautobot model class. To ensure this is the case, you can check out the model either by reading the corresponding source code on [GitHub](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot) or through the [Nautobot Shell](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/administration/nautobot-shell/) - in there you can use commands like `dir(Tenant)` to get an overview of available fields for the different models.

Reviewer: This is one of the reasons I thought the graphql idea was good. Obviously not for this PR, but in general, we need a better story for newcomers to understand how to build this out.

Author: Yeah I wasn't happy with this, it requires somewhat intricate knowledge. Would be cool to have a data model published somewhere in a very easy to understand format

!!! note
    If you want to sync data into a model provided by a [Nautobot App](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/plugins/), you need to navigate to its respective source code repository. Furthermore, you may need to manually import the model if you're using the Nautobot Shell approach.

## Custom Fields

> For [custom fields](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/models/extras/customfield/), you will need to use a `nautobot_ssot.contrib.CustomFieldAnnotation`. Given a custom field called "Test" on the circuit provider model, this is how you could map that custom field into the diffsync model field `test_custom_field`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [custom fields](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/models/extras/customfield/), you will need to use the `nautobot_ssot.contrib.CustomFieldAnnotation` class. Given a custom field called "Test" on the circuit provider model, this is how you could map that custom field into the diffsync model field `test_custom_field`:
```

```python
from typing_extensions import Annotated  # Python<3.9 - you need to install this module
# from typing import Annotated  # Python>=3.9
from nautobot.circuits.models import Provider

> from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel, CustomFieldAnnotation
> class ProviderModel(NautobotModel):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel, CustomFieldAnnotation

class ProviderModel(NautobotModel):
```

    _model = Provider
    _modelname = "provider"
    _identifiers = ("name",)
    _attributes = ("custom_field",)

    name: str
    test_custom_field: Annotated[str, CustomFieldAnnotation(name="Test")]
```

!!! note

>     This is necessary because custom field names may include spaces, which are un-representable in Python object field names unless you resort to `setattr` shenanigans, which would get us into trouble here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Defining a `CustomFieldAnnotation` variable is necessary since custom field names may include spaces, which are un-representable in Python object field names.
```

## Many-to-one Relationships

> For many-to-one relationships (i.e. [foreign keys](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_one/) or [generic foreign keys](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/contenttypes/#generic-relations)) a slightly different approach is employed. We need to add a field on our model for each field that we need in order to uniquely identify our related object behind the many-to-one relationship. We can do this using a [familiar synta](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/queries/#lookups-that-span-relationships) of double underscore separated paths. Assuming we want to synchronize prefixes and associate them with locations, we may be faced with the problems that locations aren't uniquely identified by name alone, but rather need the location type as well, we can address this as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For many-to-one relationships (i.e. [foreign keys](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_one/) or [generic foreign keys](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/contenttypes/#generic-relations)) a slightly different approach is employed. We need to add a field on our model for each field that we need in order to uniquely identify our related object behind the many-to-one relationship. We can do this using a [familiar syntax](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/db/queries/#lookups-that-span-relationships) of double underscore separated paths. Assuming we want to synchronize `prefixes` and associate them with `locations`, we may be faced with the problems that locations aren't uniquely identified by name alone, but rather need the location type as well, we can address this as follows.
```

```python
from nautobot.ipam.models import Prefix

> from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel
> class PrefixModel(NautobotModel):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel

class PrefixModel(NautobotModel):
```

    _model = Prefix
    _identifiers = ("network", "prefix_length")
    _attributes = ("location__name", "location__location_type__name")

    network: str
    prefix_length: int

    location__name: str
    location__location_type__name: str
```

> Now, on model `create` or `update`, the SSoT framework will dynamically pull in the location with the specified name and location type name, uniquely identifying the location and populating the foreign key.

Reviewer: it's not immediately clear to me to what `to add a field on our model` is exactly constructed.

### Special Case: Generic Foreign Key

> In the case of a [generic foreign key](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_many/), we are faced with a problem. Normally, the [content type](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/contenttypes/) of a relationship field can be inferred from the model class. In the case of generic foreign keys however, this is not the case. In the example of the [IP address](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/models/ipam/ipaddress/?h=ip+address) model in Nautobot, the `assigned_object` field can point to either a device's or a VM's interface. We address this the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of a [generic foreign key](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_many/), we are faced with a problem. Normally, the [content type](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/contenttypes/) of a relationship field can be inferred from the model class. In the case of generic foreign key**s** however, this is not the case. In the example of the [IP address](https://docs.nautobot.com/projects/core/en/stable/models/ipam/ipaddress/?h=ip+address) model in Nautobot, the `assigned_object` field can point to either a device's or a VM's interface. We address this the following way:
```

Author: I don't understand, why is it important to highlight the "s" here?

Reviewer: First you write:

> In the case of a [generic foreign key]

Then you write:

> In the case of generic foreign keys however

After reading that 5 times I am still not sure what two things are being compared. It seemed logical that you were comparing `generic foreign key` to `generic foreign keys` based on the paragraph structure ... but perhaps that is wrong?? So emphasis is my best guess at what is being stated as different.

Reviewer: I would say a common theme is to be explicit, often by removing pronouns but in this case a bit different. It's very complex topic and I am not always understanding "what exactly" is being referred to.

```python
from nautobot.ipam.models import IPAddress

> from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel
> class NautobotIPAddress(NautobotModel):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel

class NautobotIPAddress(NautobotModel):
```

    _model = IPAddress
    _modelname = "ip_address"
    _identifiers = (
        "host",
        "prefix_length",
    )
    _attributes = (
        "status__name",
        "assigned_object__app_label",
        "assigned_object__model",
        "assigned_object__device__name",
        "assigned_object__name",
    )

    host: str
    prefix_length: int
    status__name: str
    assigned_object__app_label: str
    assigned_object__model: str
    assigned_object__device__name: str
    assigned_object__name: str
```

!!! warning

>     A limitation of this approach is that we are locked into a single kind of content type unless the field names for all content types match. In this specific case, the VM interface model does not have a `device` field. This is a known issue.

Reviewer: we are locked into a single kind of content type unless the field names -> we are locked into a single kind of content type [per something] unless the field names

## One-to-many and many-to-many Relationships

> For "to-many" relationships such as (generic) foreign keys traversed backwards or [many-to-many relationships](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_many/), we need to employ a different mechanism. First, we need to again identify which fields of the related object we are interested in for queries to it. In this case, our example will be using an interface model for which we also want to sync associated IP addresses. For our scenario, lets assume that our IP addresses can be uniquely identified through the `host` and `prefix_length` fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For "to-many" relationships such as (generic) foreign keys traversed backwards or [many-to-many relationships](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/db/examples/many_to_many/), we need to employ a different mechanism. Again we start by identifying which fields of the related object we are interested in for queries **to** the model. In this case, our example will be using an `Interface` model for which we also want to sync the associated IP addresses. For our scenario, lets assume that our IP addresses can be uniquely identified through the `host` and `prefix_length` fields:
```

```python
from typing_extensions import TypedDict  # Python<3.9 - you need to install this module
# from typing import TypedDict  # Python>=3.9

class IPAddressDict(TypedDict):
    host: str
    prefix_length: int
```

> Having defined this, we can now again define our diffsync model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having defined this, we can now define our diffsync model:
```

```python
from typing import List  # use the builtin 'list' from Python 3.9 on
from nautobot.dcim.models import Interface

> from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel
> class NautobotInterface(NautobotModel):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from nautobot_ssot.contrib import NautobotModel

class NautobotInterface(NautobotModel):
```

    _model = Interface
    _modelname = "interface"
    _identifiers = (
        "name",
        "device__name",
    )
    _attributes = ("ip_addresses",)

    name: str
    device__name: str
    ip_addresses: List[IPAddressDict] = []
```

!!! note
    In this example we can also see a case where a foreign key (name `device`, through `device__name`) constitutes part of the `_identfiers` field - this is a common pattern as model relationships define their uniqueness across multiple models in Nautobot.

> Through us defining this, Nautobot will now be able to dynamically load IP addresses related to our interfaces from Nautobot, and also set the related objects on the relationship in the `create` and `update` methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through us defining the model, Nautobot will now be able to dynamically load IP addresses related to our interfaces from Nautobot, and also set the related objects on the relationship in the `create` and `update` methods. 
```
